# Hurricane Analysis and Forecast System

Hurricane Analysis and Forecast System (HAFS), as the Unified Forecast System (UFS) hurricane application, is the FV3 (Finite­ Volume Cubed-Sphere Dynamical Core) based multi-scale model and data assimilation system capable of providing tropical cyclone (TC, including hurricane and typhoon) analyses and forecasts of the inner core structure key to improving size and intensity predictions, as well as the large-scale environment that is known to influence the TC’s motion. HAFS development targets an operational analysis and forecast system for hurricane forecasters with reliable, robust and skillful guidance on TC track and intensity (including rapid intensification), storm size, genesis, storm surge, rainfall and tornadoes associated with TCs. It will provide an advanced analysis and forecast system for cutting-edge research on modeling, physics, data assimilation, and coupling to earth system components for high-resolution TC predictions within the outlined Next Generation Global Prediction System (NGGPS)/Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) objectives of the Unified Forecast System (UFS). Currently, HAFS is under active development with collaborative efforts among NCEP/EMC, AOML, GFDL, GSL, ESRL/NESII, OFCM/AOC, DTC, NCAR and the broader research community.

For information about how to contribute to HAFS development, please review the [code repository governance](https://github.com/hafs-community/HAFS/wiki/HAFS-Code-Repository-Governance).  

# Disclaimer

This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
